*********  Introduction to Software Testing Life cycle (STLC) **********

Testing is not only limited just to find bugs but has a wide scope and is required 
right from the beginning of the projectwhen the requirements are not even finalized.

Testing also has a lifecycle in 6 phase:

Requirement Analysis --> Test Planning --> Test Case Development --> Test Environment Setup
--. Test Execution --> Test Closure.



1. Requirement Analysis: The QA team will interact with various stackholders (Client, Business
Analyst, Technical Leads, System Architects etc) to understand the requirements in detail.



2. Test Planning: Test planning is most important phase of STLC where all testing strategy is defined.
How to prepare Test Plan ans Strategy?


Test Plan is a document which contain the plan related to all testing activities which needs
to be done to deliver a quality product.

This document is prepared after analyzing Business requirements of the project.

It is usually prepared by the Test Lead or Senior QA in Agile team.

The Focus of the document is to describe:

-> What to test (In Scope of testing)
-> What cannot be test (i.e: in a ecommerce site has a Paypal payment method, 
	so here we can't test how paypal working, cause can't have paypal's code to us)
-> Tools Used for testing Environment/Infrustructure required to Test (Jira, VM"multiple Browser" etc)
-> Staffing and Traning Needs
-> Testing Duration
-> Risks and contingencies plan


N.B: Requirement Analysis and Test planning is constant for both Agile and Water fall model.
It's need to be completed before Test Case Development, Test Environment Setup and Test Execution.

For Water fall model, Test Case Development, Test Environment Setup and Test Execution get done
once the whole project is done by the developer, when developer share the Duild, then QA team
can test.

On the other hand, Test Case Development, Test Environment Setup and Test Execution repeat 
continiously for every epic/user stories. When one chunk of User Stories are completed
QA team make the test and when another chunk of User Stories get ready, QA team again test.




3. Test Case Development: This is the phase of STLC where testing team writedown the detailed 
test cases. Along with test cases testing team also preapare the test data if any required
for testing. Once the test cases are ready then these test cases are reviewed by peer membetrs
or QA lead.

Also, the Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM) is prepared. The RTM is an industrial-accepted
formate for tracking requirements where each test case is mapped with the requirements.
Using this RTM, we can track backward & Forward tracebility.


Using the RTM we can find the Test coverage. i.e: we have 5 user requirements and 5 Test cases.
Using the RTM we can map which Test cases are written for which requirement and is there any
requiremnet we have that's not having any Test cases, if so then can make some test cases for
that requirements as well.

This RTM could be prepare on a Excel sheet. Each column is the Requirement no and Rows are Test
cases. For example:


	Req1	Req2	Req3	Req4	Req5
----------------------------------------------
TC1	X		X
----------------------------------------------
TC2		X	
----------------------------------------------
TC3				X
----------------------------------------------
TC4					X
----------------------------------------------
TC5	X		X
----------------------------------------------

And we can mark it the "X" sign which Requirements for which Test Cases.





4. Test Environment Setup: Here Environment is "Server". For every software there should
have seperate Environmet for Developer and Tester. After developing the the code, dev 
deploy the code to the QA team server so that QA team can test from their own server, cause
QA tean shouldn't/can't test from the Developer server. 

We can say server is web address like: www.dev.com (It's for developer)
www.QAteam.com (It's for the QA team server where developer deploy their code for testing)


N.B: In the intervied, can ask this question, what is the most challenging part in STLC.
Test Environment Setup is the most challenging part cause for example, there are multiple
developer working on multiple feature. And one developer Dev1 delployed the code to the
QA server and before finish that testing Dev2 deployed his code to the QA server again. 
So Dev2 code will be override of Dev1 code. And QA team can't test the Dev1 codes.

Here the solution is: there should be multiple server for the QA team so each Developer
can deploy their own code to different QA server. 




5. Test Execution: During this phase testers will carry out the testing bases on the test 
plans ans test cases prpared. Bugs will be reported back to the development team for 
correction and retesting will be performed.



6. Test Closure: Test closure activities are done mostly after the product is delivered.

Test closure activities mainly comprise of 4 types:
-> Ensure Test Completion
-> Handover Test Artificates (Give all the test cases, automation test codes, reports 
	to the cliets)
-> Project Retrospectives 
-> Achive Test Work Products






